# World Forum Resolution #0001: On Procedure

The mission of the World Forum is to promote cooperation amongst the nation-states upon Enkon Delta. To this end, we, its members, have elected to establish the procedures of this body.

1. The Right to Address this Forum should be reserved solely to the Ambassadors representing each member state duly accredited as such by their respective Heads of State.
2. The same Right of Address should also be enjoyed by the Heads of State, Heads of Government, or Foreign Ministers (or the equivalent thereof) of the member states concerned.
3. Any member state whose territorial integrity and constitutional order is threatened by, or indeed is actually under, attack by a foreign state, may address the World Forum directly in an effort to resolve the dispute.
4. Any member states which are at variance with one another, or with states not members of the World Forum, which cannot resolve their dispute bilaterally and without recourse to arms, must immediately notify the World Forum of such a dispute.
5. Any member state acting as a mediator between states at variance which are not themselves members of the World Forum, must notify the Forum of any developments regarding the dispute between the states at variance, and the efforts of mediation undertaken by the mediating member state.
6. Any member state may bring accusations of another member state having been in breach of the Aventine Proclaimation, along with any evidence pertaining to the breach, for the consideration of the Forum.
7. In the event of a critical international emergency, any member state may petition the Forum for aid and assistance.
8. Any and all questions decided by the World Forum should be done so by a majority of all member states participating in the debate on the issue concerned, with each member state holding one vote.
9. With the concurrence of a two-thirds majority of all member states thereof, the World Forum may adopt International Statutes, binding on all member states, which shall govern the international system and provide a body of international law for Enkon, supplementary to the provisions of the Aventine Proclaimation and of any bilateral or multilateral treaties which may be concluded by any of the member states of the Forum.
10. With the concurrence of a four-fifths majority of all member states thereof, a nation-state may be evicted from the World Forum.
11. After one years time, evicted nations may appeal to rejoin the World Forum, provided they commit to the measures outlined in the Aventine Proclaimation.
12. The Right of voting within the World Forum is reserved for Player Nations only. NPCs may address the World Forum.

**Proposed by** Croxoco, **with amendments by** Nedea  
**Adopted in the year 500 AI**

[Return to World Forum](pages/organizations/worldforum/worldforum.md)