# World Forum Resolution #0002: On Leadership & Operation

**DESIRING** a formal, elected individual to act as chair/clerk/secretary for this body.

**RECOGNIZING** the ambassador from Nedea has fulfilled this role without being elected to do so.

**RECALLING** Resolution #0001 provides for nations to address this body.

**RECALLING** the Aventine Proclamation describes a Chief Executive Officer

**UNDERSTANDING** that proper parliamentary procedure requires an individual to coordinate this body.

1. The representatives of the World Forum shall elect a **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM** to lead this body in parliamentary procedure.
2. The **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM** shall be elected by a simple majority of all members of the World Forum.
3. To be elected **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM**, a nation must be nominated and seconded to have candidacy for this position.
4. The **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM** shall serve with the confidence of the majority, with no limit to term length or number.
5. To remove the **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM**, a representative shall move to call a constructive vote of no confidence, nominating a successor at the same time; this motion must be seconded, and the successor shall be elected by a simple majority of all members of the World Forum.
6. The **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM** shall be charged with opening and closing of debates, calling for motions, seconds, and votes of the World Forum.
7. The **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM** shall serve as the representative of the World Forum.
8. The **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM** shall enjoy all the same diplomatic protections as outlined in Resolution #0001 and the Aventine Proclamation.
9. The **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM** shall alert the Administrator of any adjustments that need to be made to the OP or the archive of passed resolutions.
10. The honorable representative from Nedea shall serve as interim **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM** until this body elects a new one.
11. A member’s election as **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM** shall not prejudice their rights to participate in the Forum as full and equal members.
12. As described in Article 81 of the Aventine Proclamation, the President of the World Forum shall assume the role of Chief Executive Officer and become the sole depository of the Aventine Proclamation.

Upon ratification of this resolution, the World Forum will immediately hold an election to choose the **PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD FORUM**.

**Proposed by** Nedea **with amendments by** Croxoco and The Way Sun Cooperation

[Return to World Forum](/pages/organizations/worldforum/worldforum.md)