# World Forum Resolution #0003: On Process

**DESIRING** a formal procedure on how to adopt resolutions.

**RECOGNIZING** the WF has been lax in its procedures.

**RECOGNIZING** the need to expedite certain procedures.

**UNDERSTANDING** that proper parliamentary procedure is required for this body to have any sense.

1. The World Forum will establish and provide a Standard Resolution Template. This template will be shared in the OP of the World Forum.
2. The World Forum will establish different quorums to expedite legislation.
   - **The Major Quorum**: as described in Resolution #0001, the Major Quorum will consist of 2/3 of the total body. Used to pass resolutions.
   - **The Minor Quorum**: The Minor Quorum will consist of 1/3 of the total body. Used to pass amendments.
   - The OP of the World Forum will show what the current Major Quorum and Minor Quorum requirements are.
   - In cases of fractions, Major Quorums and Minor Quorums are rounded down.
3. In the case of proposing and adopting resolutions, the World Forum will adopt the following procedure:
   1. A representative will propose a resolution using the Standard Resolution Template.
   2. The Proposal must be seconded by another representative to be introduced to the floor.
   3. Once debate has started, the President will take over amendments and posting of the updated resolution.
   4. All amendments will require the Minor Quorum to be added to the resolution.
   5. Once all amendments have been added and a nation moves to adopt the resolution, the President will call for a second.
   6. Once a second has been made, the resolution will move to the floor for voting.
   7. Passing a resolution requires the Major Quorum.
   8. If the resolution passes, it will become law and the President will alert the Administrator to update the factbooks.
4. The World Forum will be granted the following powers:
   - **Declare Emergency**: Any member of the World Forum may move to declare an emergency. Requiring the Major Quorum, if an emergency is declared, the President will have expanded powers to expedite WF procedure. Declaring an emergency immediately moves this motion to the floor despite any other motions already present. If the vote fails, the proposing nation will be Censured.
   - **End Emergency**: A representative may move to declare the emergency over. This requires the Major Quorum. If an emergency is declared over, the President's emergency powers will be revoked.
   - **Censure Representative**: A representative may move to enforce a censure on another representative. This requires the Major Quorum. A censured Representative may not propose any resolutions or amendments.
   - **Revoke Censure**: A representative may move to revoke a censure from another representative. This requires the Major Quorum.
5. The President will be granted the following powers:
   - **The Veto**: The President will be granted veto powers to dismiss a resolution from the floor immediately. Upon a veto, the WF will immediately hold a vote to restore the motion to the floor, requiring the Major Quorum. If restored, the President may not veto the resolution again. If the vote fails, the resolution is dismissed from the floor and the WF will move to recess.
   - **The Emergency Measure**: *In times of emergency*, the President may bypass the Major Quorum required to pass resolutions, instead requiring the Minor Quorum.

**Proposed by** Nedea **with amendments by** Athretvari

[Return to World Forum](pages/organizations/worldforum/worldforum.md)